David started out as a production
assistant on a program called animal
vegetable or mineral which obviously
left quite an impression
good evening and don't leave that chair
I try I've said that wrong but I have to
say it that way because tonight the
challenging Museum is the National
Archaeological Museum of Prague and here
is the first object now isn't it a very
spirited animal bit and obviously like a
spirited chairman from the villa Celtic
Fringe how are we getting on there two
things you can all say in these
circumstances either it's a ritual
object or else money as always true you
can also one or two that's one of the
other okay and that is money richer and
they're what my Hungarian colleagues
would call a pitch elbow well it's so
silly care of some kind of volcanic it
is it a volcanic yes yes is it something
you use for looking India yes Sameera
yeah yes 2000 b.c Wow very good
I'm going to give you the three marks it
feels as though David's always been on
our screens but there was a first time
in 1955 we hatched the scheme with the
London suit can't collect animals and it
was going to be presented from the
studio with little bits of film which we
would shoot out on location in Africa
and then the man from the zoo would show
these pythons or whatever Sierra Leone
we were going to look for a bird called
pick authorities gymnast Ellis no one
had seen its nest and very few people
ever seen this and so the zoo wanted
well that's what we went for
in addition to pick authorities we hope
to take back to London a representative
collection of the whole of the animal
life of this part of Africa that's Jack
Lester he was keeper the reptile house
in London Zoo in charge of the whole
trip and our job was was filming him a
gaboon viper and just as deadly as the
cobras but when Jack heard of it he was
delighted and came running anxious to
catch such a handsome snake for his
reptile house in the zoo
but we were able to produce some magic
of our own for while advance had been
going on I had been recording the music
on my tape recorder this of course was
the object of a great deal of curiosity
and I always paid the recording back and
let the singers listen to themselves on
a little earphone blank astonishment was
always followed by huge grins of delight
yes I love David
dear jack got very ill as a result of
this trip and the BBC said okay well if
Chester can't appear because he's in a
London School of Tropical Medicine
out and blood go down and do it Henry's
and I appeared in this thing at all
a month ago Charles Lagos and I returned
from spending four months in search of a
dragon but we weren't going to keep our
eyes shut on the way we were going to
look at many other things at the time
that's what zoos did a so that people
could see the ones the world be so that
they could learn about them so
scientists could learn about and see so
you could learn how to you might be able
to beat them all of which are perfectly
laudable propositions and I still think
the zoos have got a very good function
but you can't go catching in the freeway
that we did 50 years ago
and you've got to provide them with much
better cages than we do enclosures being
us well I think with dismay at some of
the birds that we happily put in hey
viewers
I don't think birds of prey should we
kept
you